# DevOps / SRE - Top Links Last Week

## Week 51 - Issue #58

  

  

## [Amazon Introduces Re:Post, a “Stack Overflow” for AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/aws-repost-a-reimagined-qa-experience-for-the-aws-community/)

  

AWS re:Post is an AWS-managed Q&A service offering crowd-sourced, expert-reviewed answers to your technical questions about AWS that replaces the original AWS Forums. Community members can earn reputation points to build up their community expert status by providing accepted answers and reviewing answers from other users. All active users from the previous AWS Forums have been migrated onto the new service. Questions from AWS Premium Support customers that do not receive a response from the community are passed on to AWS Support engineers.

  

## [AWS power failure in US-EAST-1 region killed some hardware and instances](https://www.theregister.com/2021/12/22/aws_outage/)

  

Amazon Web Services' US-EAST-1 region suffers second power outage in a fortnight. Network issues are hampering efforts at full recovery of services. Cloud economist Corey Quinn rates the outage's impact on the world economy. The outage is the second in two weeks, with US-WEST-1 going missing for 30 minutes on December 15th and eight hours in September 2021. Customers are advised not to rely on a single Availability Zone, so multiple regions can't take out the whole of the region.

  

  

## [Cache Poisoning at Scale](https://youst.in/posts/cache-poisoning-at-scale/)

  

The increasing complexity in technology stacks constantly introduces unexpected behavior which can be abused to achieve novel cache poisoning attacks. In this paper I will present the techniques I used to report over 70 cache poisoning vulnerabilities to various Bug Bounty programs. I was able to use the same technique on a multitude of other targets, including GitLab, GitHub and Cloudflare. I also used the technique to poison static files like those of Ruby and Rackware applications deployed alongside the middleware on Rackware. This was awarded $7500, making it my highest paid cache poisoning report.

  

## [5 Dev Tools To Look Out For In 2022](https://betterprogramming.pub/5-dev-tools-to-look-out-for-in-2022-713f94c0f3cf)

  

GitLive is a team view showing all work in progress for each collaborator from your Git repository. CodeSee Maps is a tool for developers to visually map their codebase. DeepSource is a static code analyzer that can help you with automating the code reviews and save your team a lot of time. Appsmith is an open-source framework to build internal tools for teams that build internal apps that are hosted inside their own infrastructure and firewall. The tool is mainly targeted at developers, but it’s of great value for anyone who interacts with the team.

  

## [How to monitor Docker Containers with Elasticsearch, Filebeat & Metricbeat](https://towardsdatascience.com/how-to-monitor-docker-containers-with-elasticsearch-filebeat-metricbeat-493b18681464)

  

Elastic Stack is moving towards integrations via Elastic Agents which now includes a Docker Integration which can fetch metrics from Docker containers. Metricbeat and Filebeats are still very much needed as they offer more flexibility. To see the logs generated by the containers themselves, we need to install Filebeat to look directly into the container in a specific path. These log files are stored on the host where the docker engine is running and can be found under the following path /var/lib/docker/containers/container-id/ container-id.-log.

  

  

## [4 Reasons Why You Need Code Reviews](https://betterprogramming.pub/4-reasons-why-you-need-code-reviews-cd603030a9c7)

  

Code reviews offer multiple benefits that help improve your code and your team. These benefits include: helping reduce bugs and logic errors, providing an opportunity for training and spreading knowledge across areas and teams. The author explains why code reviews are so critical for software developers and companies that don’t have a QA (Quality Assurance) team. He says the most he’s ever learned about writing good code has come from code reviews. 

  

---- 

24 links this week. AI assisted and Human edited. Unlock the rest below.

---- 

  

  

## [The Road to Chaos … as a Service](https://thenewstack.io/the-road-to-chaos-as-a-service/)

  

Chaos engineering is a process for testing a highly distributed computing platform’s ability to withstand random disruptions and improve its reliability and resilience. Netflix pioneered the concept of chaos engineering in the early 2010s. Chaos-as-a-service will provide a quick, simple method for organizations of all sizes to run chaos experiments and test their systems’ resiliency. The platform should provide users “intuitive UI, customer support, out-of-the-box integrations, and everything else you need to get experimenting in a matter of minutes”

  

## [Six Ways to Secure Kubernetes Using Traffic Management Tools](https://www.nginx.com/blog/six-ways-to-secure-kubernetes-using-traffic-management-tools/)

  

Three factors make cloud‑native apps more difficult to secure than traditional apps. Cloud‑native app delivery costs are unpredictable and high SecOps teams struggle to protect apps. When there are security incidents in a Kubernetes environment, most organizations pull their deployments out of production. That slows down digital transformation initiatives that are essential for the future of the organization – never mind the wasted engineering efforts and money. In this post, we cover six security use cases that you can solve with traffic‑management tools. A combination of these techniques is often used to create a comprehensive security strategy.

  

  

## [GitOps: CI/CD using GitHub Actions and ArgoCD on Kubernetes](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/gitops-ci-cd-using-github-actions-and-argocd-on-kubernetes-909d85d37746)

  

GitOps is an evolution of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) and a DevOps best practice that leverages Git as the single source of truth, and control mechanism for creating, updating, and deleting system architecture. In today’s Agile world, modern applications are developed with speed and scale in mind, and in the actual world we deploy code to production hundreds of times per day. In this article, I will show you how to implement GitOps by setting up a real-world CI/CD workflow.

  

## [What is Service Discovery & why it is important in Microservices. Described in less than 4 minutes.](https://blog.devgenius.io/service-discovery-importance-in-microservices-17970569685?source=rss----4e2c1156667e---4)

  

Service Discovery is the pattern of automatically finding what instances of service to fulfill a given query. There are three components to Service Discovery: the service provider, the service consumer, and the service registry. Service Discovery works by devices connecting through a common language on the network allowing devices or services to connect without any manual intervention. Microservices are dynamic in nature and multiple instances of a single Microservice can co-exist. In short, we need to know the location of any Microservices without service discovery.

  

## [Integrating Argo CD for Your Kubernetes Project](https://randiltennakoon.medium.com/integrating-argo-cd-for-your-kubernetes-project-79ef16011433)

  

Argo CD is an open-source continuous delivery tool for your project which runs on Kubernetes Randil Tennakoon 2 days ago. It has a graphical user interface to see all the components on the terminal using kubectl commands. You can connect your repository with Argo and through a single click, you can sync up your application with the latest changes. The auto-sync feature and once you enable it, your application will be synced up automatically. It also has built-in support for 3rd-party tools like kustomize, helm, ksonnet and etc.

  

## [GitHub may replace DockerHub](https://james-read.medium.com/github-may-replace-dockerhub-a5da5e547f01)

  

DockerHub’s web interface doesn’t keep me wanting to use it, either. DockerHub had nothing that was “sticky” — that kept me on the service. GitHub has become the defacto standard for any Open Source project, and developers, on the whole, seem to like using it. The moment you irritate or annoy developers though, they’ll stop using your tools, and your stuff. GitHub has always been poor at hosting binary packages that are easy for users to download.

  

## [AWS Serverless Services — An Overview.](https://sandro.volpee.de/aws-serverless-services)

  

There is a variety of services out there that you can plug together for building your serverless application. AWS’s promise is just that your code will be executed and you don't need to handle any infrastructure. This article gives you an introduction to the most important and most used AWS serverless services. It has a lot of benefits using them like: less risk when developing and higher security due to encryption at rest. Of course, there are downsides as well and one of the biggest downsides is a higher complexity.

  

## [Security Services in the Amazon Web Services Cloud](https://aws.plainenglish.io/security-and-encryption-in-aws-cloud-bc099b88777)

  

The AWS Solutions Architect Associate Exam will ask some questions about Amazon Web Services. There are three types of encryption in flight (SSL) and client-side encryption (at rest) There are two types of Customer Master Keys: symmetric and asymmetric. AWS KMS is a service to create and manage cryptographic keys, used to encrypt data. It can also manage encryption for other AWS Services. The exam asks you for a service that can store secrets, rotate secret keys, or a service integrated with databases like RDS.

  

## [What’s the Hype With Log4j](https://betterprogramming.pub/whats-the-hype-with-log4j-2de7a64f221)

  

Apache disclosed a zero-day vulnerability called Log4Shell in the Java logging library Log4j. Experts have described it as one of the most severe security flaws seen in a long time. The vulnerability allows Remote Code Execution (RCE) and it’s easy to exploit. An attacker can also prepare a malicious Java file and include it as a string in any data that will be logged. The problem arises when we try to send a manipulated request into the log. server. If the attacker-controlled server is a. remote-controlled, the attacker will get a. local shell with the. local. privileges of the vulnerable system running the vulnerable application.

  

## [Designing Sequence Diagrams for API Orchestration](https://betterprogramming.pub/designing-sequence-diagrams-for-api-orchestration-113ac45e16df?source=rss----d0b105d10f0a---4)

  

API orchestration begins with the use case, followed by the available APIs, and not the other way around. Sequence diagrams are tool agnostic so you can use tools that you prefer as the contents follow a standard format. For this sample scenario, we will reference the following systems: Mobile App Middleware Customer Loyalty App and customer loyalty app. API for purchasing coupon: Post coupon/purchase (required: customer_id, coupon_id) Customer sign in to mobile app. View coupon. Request sent to Middleware.

  

## [How to Find Dangerous Log4j Libraries](https://thenewstack.io/how-to-find-dangerous-log4j-libraries/)

  

The Apache log4j logging library has become the COVID-19 of technology. There are three separate Log4j security problems: CVE-2021-45046, the original, which scored the perfect 10, and its less dangerous cousin, the Log4Shell. The trick, of course, is finding that pesky Apache logging library. Security boffins have spent the last two weeks digging around trying to second guess the dependencies of every outsourced Java project IT has ever signed off. All too much of that code is hidden away in Java Archive Files.

  

## [On the Safe Side: Log your 3rd-party Package Versions](https://itnext.io/on-the-safe-side-log-your-3rd-party-package-versions-8b70ebdc9e1d)

  

In the light of the recent log4j2 vulnerability, it happens frequently that you have to upgrade a version of some 3rd-party dependency in order to mitigate a recently discovered exploit. With nowadays complex dependency rules, even when you specify an explicit package version somewhere, your package manager of choice (e.g. Maven, Gradle) might decide to set your package version to some lower version, to adhere to some common dependency with another package you use. It is recommended to add this command to your build workflow so that all dependencies are clearly logged already at build time.

  

## [An Introduction to Amazon S3 Storage Classes](https://aws.plainenglish.io/amazon-s3-storage-classes-24e0ac79d021)

  

Amazon S3 provides a range of storage classes that we can choose from based on the data access, resiliency, and cost requirements of our workloads. S3 Intelligent Tiering is designed as an intelligent storage class. It analyzes the access frequency of the stored data and automatically moves the data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact, retrieval charges or operational overhead. The infrequent Access tier saves up to 40% on storage costs, saving up to 68%. S3 Standard-IA is suitable for data that is accessed less frequently, infrequently as well as rarely accessed data.

  

## [Redesigning Etsy’s Machine Learning Platform](https://codeascraft.com/2021/12/21/redesigning-etsys-machine-learning-platform/)

  

Etsy’s Machine Learning Platform V2 is the second major version of the end-to-end ML platform. Etsy leverages machine learning (ML) to create personalized experiences for our millions of buyers around the world with state-of-the-art search, ads, and recommendations. The ML Platform team at Etsy supports our machine learning experiments by developing and maintaining the technical infrastructure that Etsy's ML practitioners rely on to prototype, train, and deploy ML models at scale. By 2020, Etsy decided to cut the cord by offloading platform responsibilities to the modern ML frameworks our customers were increasingly familiar with.

  

## [4 Kubernetes Anti-Patterns to Avoid](https://betterprogramming.pub/4-kubernetes-anti-patterns-to-avoid-4029fe340998)

  

An anti-pattern is a high-risk solution to a problem that’s usually ineffective. Kubernetes is used with cloud-native workloads in mind, working best when employing particular design patterns. Deviating from best-practice design patterns creates technical debt, which, sooner or later, must be paid. Using an ingress controller can help implement the recommended design patterns, and how to implement them instead. Anti-patterns include not using Blue, Green, or Canary Deployments models.

  

## [What to Do When the Index is Larger Than the Table](https://betterprogramming.pub/what-to-do-when-the-index-is-larger-than-the-table-2fae2ae8ee75)

  

There are several causes that increase the size of indexes: too many indexes in the same columns. Drop unused indexes and reduce the number of columns in existing ones. Overlapping indexes can get fragmented, you can rebuild the index with the following command:ALTER INDEX INDEX_NAM;E ON TABLE_NAME REBUILD. After that, the index will be rebuilt and the fragmentation of the actual indexes will be decreased. When you want a rule of thumb:Use the “5 and 5 rule”

  

## [Choreo: A Serverless Platform for Building Cloud Native Apps](https://thenewstack.io/choreo-a-serverless-platform-for-building-cloud-native-apps/)

  

Charles Humble is editor-in-chief at Container Solutions, a cloud native consultancy. Humble: Cloud has fundamentally changed the nature of programming at almost every level. We’re seeing languages such as Go and Rust, and more recently WSO2’s Ballerina, born into this new era, each with a specific sweet spot. Serverless is perhaps the only technology that has gotten anywhere near the hype and mindshare of Kubernetes. FaaS has become so intertwined with the term serverless that the two are almost interchangeable.

  

## [What Is The Most Important AWS Service](https://betterprogramming.pub/why-iam-is-the-most-valuable-aws-service-9ce0893db25c)

  

Identity Access Management or IAM is the most valuable service on Amazon Web Services. It is used internally by many other components to grant each other permissions. IAM roles are meant to be used by AWS components to get access to other AWS services. The roles “empower” one's services to perform actions on other services in the cloud ecosystem. This saves a lot of time and makes user management consistent. Managing hundreds of users with attached permissions to each of them makes the system error-prone.