# DevOps / SRE - Top Links Last Week

## Week 19 - Issue #78

  

25 links

  

## [New observability features for your Splunk Dataflow streaming pipelines](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/simplify-your-splunk-dataflow-ops-with-improved-pipeline-observability/)

Counter metrics are used to count messages and requests (both successful and failed) and determine the latency distribution. Distribution metrics are now used to report average request batch size and latency. Cloud Monitoring is a chargeable feature of the Splunk Dataflow template. HEC request errors are now adequately logged, including both response status code and message: "Write To Splunk" Counters #7-10 are used to track the number of successful or failed HEC requests over time and the response status breakdown to determine if the request failed due to a client request issue.

  

## [Google Cloud launches AlloyDB, a new fully managed PostgreSQL database service](https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/11/google-cloud-launches-alloydb-a-new-fully-managed-postgresql-database-service/)

AlloyDB is a new, fully managed Postgres-compatible database service. The company claims it is twice as fast for transactional workloads as AWS's Aurora Postgres. In addition, it is four times faster than standard Postgres for the same workloads and up to 100 times faster for analytical queries. As a result, Andi Gutmans, who joined Google as its GM and VP of Engineering for its database products in 2020, says customers are willing to invest resources to get off these legacy databases. Gutmans: Customers are sick of being strapped and locked in.

  

## [Benchmarking Container Scaling on AWS](https://www.vladionescu.me/posts/scaling-containers-on-aws-in-2022)

I compared how tight containers scale-up under different orchestrators on AWS in 2022. ECS on Fargate is now faster than EC2, and EKS on EC2 scales shorter when using karpenter rather than cluster-autoscaler, even in the worst possible scenario. EKS is a tiny bit faster than ECS when using IPv6 and IP6. Lambda with increased limits scales ridiculously fast. EKS does a fantastic job scaling the components of Kubernetes Control Plane components (really job of scaling the 4s, which is about 280 EC2 Spot instances.

  

## [Boost your infrastructure with the AWS CDK #aws #cloud ](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/boost-your-infrastructure-with-cdk/)

This guest post is by AWS Container Hero Philipp Garbe. Philipp works as Lead Platform Engineer at Scout24 in Germany. He expects that every commit automatically goes into production. The AWS CDK allows you to declare your infrastructure imperatively. The primary language is TypeScript, but several other languages are also supported. Your best practices for writing good AWS CloudFormation templates can now easily be shared within your company or the developer community. At the same time, you can also benefit from others doing the same thing.

  

## [Supercharging GitHub Actions with Job Summaries #GitHub #DevOps](https://github.blog/2022-05-09-supercharging-github-actions-with-job-summaries/)

GitHub Actions Job Summaries allow for custom Markdown content on the run summary generated by each job. The same familiar functionality that powers pull requests, issues, and README files have come to Actions. Users have been asking for this type of functionality for a long time. User-generated content from Actions has previously been limited to logs and annotations. We've also added a new helper utility to the @actions/core package to add Markdown Markdown to the Actions run summary page.

  

---

  

## [Tracetest: End-to-end tests powered by your #OpenTelemetry Traces. #SRE #monitoring](https://github.com/kubeshop/tracetest)

Tracetest is an end-to-end test powered by OpenTelemetry tracing. Pick an API to test, and get the blueprint of your system under test. Use this blueprint to define assertions through the UI. Then, run a test, get the trace, and run the tests automatically as part of a build process. The trace shows all the steps the system has taken to execute the request, and the test can be run automatically. We're looking for feedback from developers, QA testers, and DevOps.

  

## [Automate Your Python Code Documentation with Pre-commit Hooks](https://towardsdatascience.com/automate-your-python-code-documentation-with-pre-commit-hooks-35c7191949a4)

Pre-commit hooks are small "scripts" that you run on every commit to identifying, and sometimes even automatically fix, issues with your code. They come in many different flavors and can be used to, for example, enforce code style, improve formatting issues, or analyze the complexity of your code. They are beneficial when you work in a continuous delivery framework, where team members need to make more minor changes, and you need to keep up with a fast development and review cycle.

  

## [The Great Security Debate: Is Patching Useless?](https://thenewstack.io/the-great-security-debate-is-patching-useless/)

Dave Aitel: Patching makes you feel good, makes vendors look good, and satisfies insurance companies, but it's not overly helpful. He says patching gives you an extreme sense of false security. He also mocks the Orwellian nature of the phrase "vulnerability management," saying that as an actual concept, it's wrong.

  

## [Red Hat Embraces DevSecOps](https://thenewstack.io/red-hat-embraces-devsecops/)

Linux and cloud power Red Hat embraces DevOpsSec security throughout its product and service lineup. The company is introducing a software supply chain for hybrid cloud environments. The pattern will incorporate Sigstore, which makes cryptographic code-signing easier. Red Hat Enterprise Linux 9 has big-time security improvements in the new RHEL 9. The Red Hat-based future is looking secure in the Red Hat cloud-based cloud future with the latest Red Hat product and cloud-security features in RHEL.

  

## [Top 5 Frustrations With Debugging Kubernetes](https://containerjournal.com/features/top-5-frustrations-with-debugging-kubernetes/)

Kubernetes has made deploying large, scalable applications more manageable, but troubleshooting can be complex. The CNCF survey found that 96% of organizations use or evaluate the technology. As a result, developers often need to go deeper into the application level, see the data being processed there, and understand how the code flows and the underlying state. In addition, debugging using the new kubectl feature isn't comfortable. It isn't easy to debug at scale.

  

## [We're all living on it. But what is The Edge?](https://whitep4nth3r.com/blog/what-is-the-edge-serverless-functions/)

More cloud hosting providers and software-as-a-service platforms offer serverless functions at The Edge. Serverless is a model that removes the limitations and constraints from traditional physical or virtual servers. As a result, it's a more straightforward, more cost-effective way to build and run applications in the cloud. Using Edge Functions, developers can collectively make the web faster and more accessible to more people, and we may also begin to reduce carbon emissions as a result of data being served quicker over a shorter distance.

  

## [Leverage DevOps Guru for RDS to detect anomalies and resolve operational issues](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/devops/leverage-devops-guru-for-rds-to-detect-anomalies-and-resolve-operational-issues/)

The Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) is a popular choice among organizations running critical applications that supports online transaction processing (OLTP) use-cases. However, as applications scale in size and sophistication, it becomes increasingly challenging for customers to quickly detect and resolve relational database performance bottlenecks and other operational issues. We'll look at how DevOps Guru for RDS can help identify and resolve these issues. Unfortunately, simulating a performance issue is resource-intensive, and it will cost you money to run these tests.

  

## [Developing a RESTful API With Go](https://betterprogramming.pub/developing-a-restful-api-with-go-b5150f693277)

Monolithic services have the advantages of simple architecture, easy deployment, and better development productivity. The mall service is generally relatively complex and consists of multiple modules. Each module will have its independent business logic, and each module will also depend on some others. Mall services are deployed on cloud hosts with multiple copies. This simple architecture can carry high throughput if well optimized. Devs who have used go-zero know that we provide an API format file to describe the Restful API.

  

## [Observability is not only for SREs](https://lightstep.com/blog/observability-mythbusters-not-only-for-sre)

When we think about Observability, we usually think about it in terms of SREs or developers. But what if I told you that Observability could fit into the world of QA? What would you say to that? I had never even considered Observability a practice that QA analysts could leverage. The answer is Trace-Driven Development from the other TD-D - also known as TBTDD - using Trace-Based Testing (TBTD)

  

## [Scan Container Images for Vulnerabilities with Grype](https://thenewstack.io/scan-container-images-for-vulnerabilities-with-grype/)

Grype, an open-source package managed by security company Anchore, is a vulnerability scanner for both images and filesystems. It has taken the place of the now-deprecated Anchore Inline Scanning script (which reaches end-of-life on Jan 10, 2022). As a result, the Anchor vulnerability database will no longer be updated. I've used Grype to successfully scan all sorts of images (such as NGINX, MySQL, and more) Grype is also ideally at home finding vulnerabilities for language-specific packages.

  

## [Zero-downtime Django migrations](https://cheigh.me/blog/posts/2022-05-10-enforcing-zero-downtime-django-migrations.html)

Many Django applications let Django applications run migrations whenever they migrate. As a result, the Django app and the database are running on different "versions" This is the transition state, as opposed to the more common steady-state where both are on the same version. We cannot change over the Django app, i.e., the source code, and apply the migration to the database simultaneously unless you do some significant infrastructure shenanigans that probably will not scale. There are two ways to sequence the transition to version B: migrate the database before the app, meaning database version B will have to run against app version A.

  

## [DataOps — What Is It And Why Should You Care?](https://betterprogramming.pub/dataops-what-is-it-and-why-should-you-care-68557ba2bf7d)

DataOps combines principles for working within an organization, best practices, and tools that help companies develop and deliver software quickly. The aim is to automate as much as possible of the product lifecycle (build, test, deploy, etc.). Keywords here are continuous integration (CI) and continuous delivery (CD) of software by leveraging on-demand IT resources (infrastructure as code), hence the name — "DEVelopment" + "OPerationS"/IT.

  

## [DockerCon 2022 Recap: Docker Extensions, Linux, and 10x Engineers](https://blog.getambassador.io/dockercon-2022-recap-docker-extensions-linux-and-10x-engineers-f60a94b13a67)

The Ambassador Labs team and Ambassador Labs attended the latest DockerCon this week. There were a bunch of product launches, such as Docker Extensions, Docker Desktop for Linux, and more. We heard many great user stories from companies like Lucasfilms and Rapid7 and Docker Captains, community luminaries, and many individual developers. 12 million+ developers use Docker tech across 200 countries, and 13 billion downloads happen each month. We'll look into the software supply chain later in this article.

  

## [Hacking the Web With SQL Injections](https://betterprogramming.pub/hacking-the-web-with-sql-injections-cd418d84219a)

Caspar Camille Rubin has written applications in Php, JavaScript, and Python for six years. However, he has never performed SQL Injections, Broken Authentication, or Cross-Site Scripting attacks. Injection attacks are malicious code injected into the network, and their goal is to fetch information from databases. They target web applications (not only Php applications) and can lead to data theft or loss. The primary reason for these attacks is that your code is insecure from the developer's side, and your queries are unsafe.

  

## [Setting up an S3 bucket and Cloudfront distribution for a Laravel Vapor storage disk](https://itnext.io/setting-up-an-s3-bucket-and-cloudfront-distribution-for-a-laravel-vapor-storage-disk-6f7036f2bc9e)

Setting up an S3 bucket and Cloudfront distribution for a Laravel Vapor storage disk is easy. However, setting up the right policies is critical to enabling access and preventing CORS problems. This guide was created through trial and error while setting up Lumeno — a résumé, portfolio, and recruitment platform built for IT professionals (designers, devs, engineers, etc.) It aims to address many issues with recruitment in techs, such as hidden salaries, cold messages about incorrect tech stacks, and more.

  

## [Seamless Docker control with Make](https://washpost.engineering/seamless-docker-control-with-make-c1a1827592e)

Docker excels at running applications in isolated and replicable containers. Compose lets you define the relationship between multiple containers using a config file. Docker Compose can also set up essential service dependencies or mock them with helpful developer tools. For example, using Node.js, you can define your targets and specify what shell commands each target should execute. Of course, you have to run the tests every time you rebuild the image, but sometimes it's a deal-breaker. For example, for a Docker project, stopping all the containers for the project and deleting all the images would require a rebuild.

  

## [Managing Applications at the Edge with HashiCorp Nomad](https://www.hashicorp.com/blog/managing-applications-at-the-edge-with-hashicorp-nomad)

Managing Applications at the Edge with HashiCorp Nomad. Learn how Nomad users in gaming, farming, and biotech orchestrate applications and devices at the edge. The general idea of edge computing is to distribute computing (plus networking and storage) closer to the source of data generation or end-users. While the list of use cases and industries continues to grow, there are common expected outcomes such as reduced latency, improved end-user experience, and cost savings. In addition, there are different edge deployment strategies to evaluate depending on the use case, application, and infrastructure requirements.

  

## [WP Engine Expands Its Headless Solution for WordPress](https://thenewstack.io/wp-engine-expands-its-headless-solution-for-wordpress/)

WP Engine announced Atlas, a framework for managing "headless" sites and applications. WordPress software is used strictly as an interface for content writers and editors. The Frontend is decoupled from the presentation (design) and publishing (build and deployment). Headless technology stores manage and deliver different content on a website without front-end delivery. A headless approach offers web developers flexibility when making visual components for backend data. The Internet of Things and our devices to access it are constantly evolving.

  

## [Terraform Cheat Sheet](https://spacelift.io/blog/terraform-commands-cheat-sheet)

This command reference guide was written using the latest version of Terraform writing. New commands and subcommands can be added and depreciated with different tool versions over time. In addition, this guide includes the Terraform Cheat Sheet, Commands Reference, and Useful Examples. The Terraform command is the first command you run after creating your configuration files to ensure your code is formatted using the HCL language standard. This makes it easier to follow and aids collaboration.

  

## [Should I Use Scrum or Kanban? Story Points or T-shirt Sizes? Iterations or Sprints?](https://betterprogramming.pub/should-i-use-scrum-or-kanban-story-points-or-t-shirt-sizes-iterations-or-sprints-f97a7ad6faf)

None of it matters until you've started creating your software before building it. Instead of using Scrum or Kanban, start building software with an educated guess about what your users want. If you're already using a framework and wondering whether you should change to Scrum or start with iterations to get yourself out of a hole, don't spend the effort you spend on building software on your customer's needs instead of building your product.